>> David Khourshid: I'm excited for
the next one because it's very painful.
So it is on cascading effects.
This is something that is
almost inevitable when you get
into bigger and bigger projects.
What happens is that you have some states,
whether it's in use, state,
usereducer, wherever, and then you have
multiple use effects that are cascading.
In fact, I think that this is worse
than having a use effect that runs on
an infinite loop accidentally, because
these are just very hard to track down.
I know I've been talking about
state machines a lot, but
when you have useeffects at cascade,
it's more like a Rube Goldberg
machine where something is happening.
And it touches something else,
which triggers something else, and
then that touches something else,
and then you have this cascade.
The side effect of this is that you're
not sure where data is updating or
when effects are being executed.
You're just hoping that if I put
everything in the dependency array and
then I have a conditional set inside
of my useeffect that says only run
this effect if this conditional is true.
So you're sort of filtering from
everything you're putting in that
dependency array,
it just becomes very confusing, and
so bugs become very hard to track down.
There have been many times where I have
had to myself debug these multiple
useeffect hooks, that cascade.
And I had to do things like comparing the
previous dependency array with the current
dependency array to comparing each item
and seeing which of those items changed.
And then once I identified, hey,
this item is causing this effect
to run when it shouldn't run, then I
would have to backtrack and see, okay,
where can this item be possibly changing?
And so when you don't have events,
you are really having to depend
on when data changes, and
that just becomes very confusing.
So this is an example over here,
where we have an effect that
triggers when the inputs change.
And then we perform the flight search,
and then the hotel search is
triggered when we select a flight,
and then we perform a hotel search.
And so this can be, for example,
a component that tries to show everything
in one page, which is pretty common,
but in order to do that, we are just
chaining these useeffects together.
And even though this looks simple enough,
when you add the actual
implementation of the useeffect and
these dependency arrays grow,
it just becomes very confusing.
So the way that we could do that,
or, sorry,
the way that we could avoid this problem
of these multiple chained useeffects,
is by, well, reducing the number of
use effects and using a reducer.
And this also gets closer to our
idea of declarative effects too.
So when you have a reducer,
you could basically say that if we for
instance have flight updated.
We could have a single use effect that
manages whenever this date changes,
I need to do the appropriate effect for
that state.
So this is the end result of doing
things in an events driven approach.
But how do we actually get there?
So what we want to do is
actually work backwards,
look at all of our use effects and
also observe the running application and
see when are things actually happening.
So what data is changing?
And can that change of data instead be
represented by an event rather than it
just changing in the use state?
And then that's triggering a use effect.
And so if it can,
we could refactor to using an event and
then just executing effects
based on the state.